Restructure image READMEs and add HEALTHCHECK to Workbench (#94)
posit-dev/images-workbench: workbench/README.md

<a href="https://posit.co/products/enterprise/workbench">
<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://cdn.posit.co/platform/containers/logos/logo_workbenchtag-reverse.svg">
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://cdn.posit.co/platform/containers/logos/logo_workbenchtag-fullcolor.svg">

>   <img alt="Posit Package Manager Logo" src="https://cdn.posit.co/platform/containers/logos/logo_workbenchtag-fullcolor.svg">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <img alt="Posit Workbench Logo" src="https://cdn.posit.co/platform/containers/logos/logo_workbenchtag-fullcolor.svg">
```

PWB_LICENSE_FILE_PATH="/etc/rstudio-server/license.lic"
PWB_DATA_STORAGE_HOST_PATH="/path/to/data"
PWB_HOME_STORAGE_HOST_PATH="/path/to/home"
docker run -d \
  --name workbench \
  -p 8787:8787 \
  -e PWB_TESTUSER=posit \
  -e PWB_TESTUSER_PASSWD=posit \
  -e PWB_LICENSE_FILE_PATH=${PWB_LICENSE_FILE_PATH} \
  -v ${PWB_LICENSE_FILE_HOST_PATH}:${PWB_LICENSE_FILE_PATH} \
  -v ${PWB_DATA_STORAGE_HOST_PATH}:/var/lib/rstudio-server \
  -v ${PWB_HOME_STORAGE_HOST_PATH}:/home \
  ${PWB_IMAGE}:${PWB_VERSION}
```

Access Workbench at `http://localhost:8787`. Log in with username `posit` and password `posit`.

### With a custom configuration file

```bash
PWB_VERSION="2026.04.0"
PWB_IMAGE="ghcr.io/posit-dev/workbench"  # or docker.io/posit/workbench
PWB_LICENSE_FILE_HOST_PATH="/path/to/license.lic"
PWB_CONFIG_HOST_PATH="/path/to/rstudio"
docker run -d \
  --name workbench \
  -p 8787:8787 \
  -p 5559:5559 \
  -v ${PWB_LICENSE_FILE_HOST_PATH}:/etc/rstudio-server/license.lic \
  -v ${PWB_CONFIG_HOST_PATH}:/etc/rstudio:ro \
  ${PWB_IMAGE}:${PWB_VERSION}
```

### With Docker Compose

```yaml
services:
  workbench:
    image: ghcr.io/posit-dev/workbench:latest
    ports:
    - "8787:8787"

>     - "5559:5559"

Reviewer: Why is this port exposed?  I thought launcher was purely internal.

Author: I think it is only needed for OHE so I'll remove it from the examples.

Each tagged image bundles a fixed set of dependencies. Both variants ship the `YYYY.MM` release of Workbench at the latest patch release available when the image was built. The `std` variant additionally ships one R version and one Python version, locked to the latest available at build time. The Containerfiles in this repository under `workbench/<version>/` document the exact versions in any tag. No arguments are overridden at build time.

See [extending examples](https://github.com/posit-dev/images-examples/tree/main/extending) for how to build on the Minimal image.

## Image tags

Posit publishes images to:
- Docker Hub: `docker.io/posit/workbench`
- GitHub Container Registry: `ghcr.io/posit-dev/workbench`

Ubuntu 24.04 is the default OS.

Tag formats where `YYYY.MM.P` is any supported Workbench version:
- `YYYY.MM.P` - Latest OS, standard variant
- `YYYY.MM.P-ubuntu-24.04` - Explicit OS, standard variant
- `YYYY.MM.P-ubuntu-24.04-std` - Explicit OS and variant
- `YYYY.MM.P-ubuntu-24.04-min` - Minimal variant
- `latest` - Latest version, default OS, standard variant

## Architectures

> Posit publishes multi-arch images for both `linux/amd64` and `linux/arm64`. Pull the same tag from either platform; Docker selects the matching manifest automatically.

Reviewer: No ARM support yet.

```

The endpoint requires `server-health-check-enabled=1` in `rserver.conf`. The bundled configuration sets this by default, so no action is required unless you mount your own `rserver.conf`.

When the container is healthy, `docker ps` reports `healthy` in the status column and the endpoint returns `200 OK` with a plain-text dump of server diagnostics. To inspect the response directly:

```bash
docker exec <container> curl -fsS http://localhost:8787/health-check
```

To disable the built-in health check, run the container with `--no-healthcheck` or override it in your orchestrator.

## Process management

Workbench runs several services inside the container under [`supervisord`](http://supervisord.org/). `supervisord` exits the container if any required service exits, so the container fails fast on startup errors.

> [!NOTE]
> Running multiple services in a single container is generally an anti-pattern. The image uses this approach as a workaround until Workbench can handle users and supporting processes in a more container-friendly way.

The image manages these services:

- **Workbench**: the main server process. Startup configuration is mounted at `/startup/base`.

> - **Job Launcher**: enables Jupyter, JupyterLab, and VS Code sessions, as well as integration with job schedulers like Slurm and Kubernetes. Enabled by default. Startup configuration is mounted at `/startup/launcher`. To disable, mount an empty volume over `/startup/launcher`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Job Launcher**: enables Positron, RStudio, VS Code, and JupyterLab sessions, as well as integration with job schedulers like Slurm and Kubernetes. Enabled by default. Startup configuration is mounted at `/startup/launcher`. To disable, mount an empty volume over `/startup/launcher`.
```
